Know it's time that we start working on the line from Netflix client is the ultimate way to make requests
within applications within services.
The main purpose of the Frank line is that next to it build it itself in its all assess so that they
can use it within their micro services architecture.
Calling other applications within the cloud environment would inclined is super easy.
In a cloud environment of course you have the beauty of distempered.
However feyne client has various advantages that we can prefer against the rest template to actually
make use of the client and exploit it.
We have to be talking about the Eureka project from Netflix also.
Yuka is the service registry service discovery application from Netflix.
It's actually a server in on itself and with just a couple of configuration within the annotations and
application properties you could connect to Eureka and talk to your other applications and services
very easily.
And considering that scenario in a cloud environment it's priceless.
So in this section we're going to be developing two things.
First thing is that we're going to be creating a Eureka server with that Eureka server.
We can register our applications first all those application as this application API application.
And also I'm going to be creating another project that I'm going to also register with Eureka with the
registration to Eureka.
We can easily call our applications with client so to start off with Eureka and tell you more about
it.
I'm going to create a new project now
I'll hit next and of course I'm going to be naming this project as Eureka server.
Let's will name the artifact to and here we go.
I'll hit next and this time we're going to be picking up a couple of different dependencies within the
dependencies.
Let's go to cloud and see what we can add and what actually we need is within the discovery tab and
the discovery tab as you can see we have Eureka's server and Eureka discovery.
Let's check them out for a second as you know there's Sprint clock Netflix Eureka's server Eureka's
server as quite a respected project from Netflix for spring developers because it makes your work fairly
easy if you're working in a multi application environment.
So in our project we're going to be making use of the Eureka's server so I'll hit that.
And also I want the discovery functionality of Eureka so I'll hit that too.
All right.
We have two dependencies.
One is the Eureka discovery and the other one is Eureka's server.
So of course we should not forget to get the Web dependency because we're going to be needing the Tom-Kat
functionality for our application to start up.
All right.
I'll hit next.
And I'll simply create my project now and I'm using new window all right and of course I'm going to
make this project full screen so that I can work with my applications easily.
Let's take out the structure of our application so I'll go to left pain and I'll first start by the
poem that Exham L in the pundit example you should notice there are a couple of different annotations
different dependencies that we're going to be needing in our application.
And first of those is the spring outrider Eureka and the other one is sprinkle out Eureka's server.
These dependencies are going to be providing us the basic functionality for you because server.
So let's go to our application class and actually say that we're going to be using this application
as you recall sir.
So to do that I'm going to open up the application in class and end up Main class.
I'm going to be annotating my project as Nabl Eureka server.
That's all there is I should do about the application class.
And the other thing that I should do is I should view the Eureka a port and I should disable this actual
application from discoloring itself because this application as also a client for Eureka Eureka's server
and it isn't as creating a server within this actual server application.
So consider that as this you have Tomcat to run your application and by sight of that tomcat you have
another container that runs the eureka eureka or annotation actually does that.
So to exclude the actual Eureka's server application from discoloring itself we're going to be using
a property in application properties.
So let's switch back there and I'm going to say Eureka that client and register with Eureka is going
to be false because I actually going to be using just the Eurekas server functionality.
I don't want to register this application with Reka.
All right.
And also let's give this application a port and the default port for Eureka is 87 61.
So I'll give it that way and I'm ready to run my Eureka application.
So let's run our Eureka's over and see what's going to happen and check out our Eureka.
So I'll go to run on my application.
Our application is starting up now and let's make this a little bit bigger so that we can see easily
what's going on within the console
or applications turning up.
And you should notice that default Eureka's server context is initialized within these laws and after
that Eureka is adding the note for itself.
It is under HTP localhost 87 61 and Slusher Rica.
And after that Eureka is going to take more action for itself.
And let's go down to our logs and see what's happening.
In the logs as you can see Eureka is printing out some default ports for itself.
And as you can see from the line here it's up and we can use this Eureka's So right away.
And and also you Ricka is printing out all kinds of laws for itself because it's always listening for
other applications to register with itself.
So now we have our Eureka's are up and running and we can connect to it to connect to it.
Let's open up Firefox and see what we have in Eureka.
So I'll go to local HAUST and 87 61 and this is the application I'm going to see the Eureka's or let's
hit enter and here we go.
We How are you Rica's.
So we're up and running.
And let's look at what we have here.
The left brain we have the system status in the system so that as you can see the environment that you're
running the Eurekas are an data center that you're running it on the right side of the screen.
We have the timings of Eureka and after that we have the instances currently registered with Eureka.
And of course we don't have registered anything with Eureka.
And after that we have some other environment variables and information about the instance and the state
is up again.
All right we have our Eureka so we're up and running.
So let's connect our application to Eureka's or so that we can make requests with inclined to the rest
by application.
So I'll switch back to I the API application now
in API application.
We should give the application the unique functionality.
So what we need in this case is that we're wanting to be a eureka client and we also want the client
functionality within our application so to do that.
I'll go to Maybin global repository and try to get our artifacts within our application so to do that.
I'll switch back to Firefox and I'll go to Mabon repository.
I'll make a simple search for it.
And let's go.
All right what we're looking now here is the split cloud starter Eureka project.
So let's start typing springe clout Stalder.
BASH Eureka.
Here we go.
We have the artifact so I'll go to the latest release the latest stable release so this is one that
2.6 and I'll simply copy the dependency so that I can add it to my application I'll copy it and switch
back to my project and in my project I'll go to my Palm file and in my palm file right after the Web
dependency.
I'll paste it go.
And as you can see applications as result our dependency on new dependency.
The other thing that we need is the Fank line.
So let's switch back to Firefox one more and what we're looking for now is spring cloud starter and
fayn.
Here we go.
We have the feyne artifact.
Let's take it also.
And as you see it's the same release with the Rica's server so I'll hit that and I'll get to dependency
and let's switch back to our application and let's paste it right love.
Here we go.
Our application just resolve the dependency and we have the feyne functionality right now.
So what we're going to do is we're going to configure our application so that it can find its way to
Eureka and connect to it.
So to start off with I'm going to go to my rest API application class and in that class I'm going to
be using a couple of annotations and the first annotation is going to say that I want to connect Eureka
server and so my application is going to be a client of Eureka.
So I'll say enable Eureka client.
All right.
And the other thing that I need as the fayn client functionality for my application so that our clients
can find and connect to me and make requests with my application.
So to do that also enable the Fank alliance.
All right.
Our application is almost ready to connect to Eureka but of course we have to see some other configuration
within our application properties to do that let's go to our application properties and in our application
our properties we're going to enable Eureka client for his application.
So to do that Eureka that client that enabled is going to be true.
And also we want the records striation for this application and I'm also going to set it to true.
So what else do we need.
We need the Eureka registry so that we can find the applications that we're going to connect to and
we can actually make requests with in fayn client.
So to do that I'm going to say eureka client and fetch registry is going to be true because the other
way our application is going to go to Eureka.
So all the time and that's not going to be very efficient.
We want it to be fetching the registry for itself.
And after that we have to be enabling the non-secure Porphyrion application because we're running our
application within a local environment and in that local environment we want to be connecting to our
application anytime we want.
We don't want to be disrupted.
All right.
So I'll say eureka dot instance dot non-secure pork is going to be enabled.
All right we're actually ready to connect our application to Eureka server so let's give it a try and
try our application to connect to Eureka server.
So I'll start my application now.
Our application is starting up.
And let's bring up a little bit so that we can see it more clearly.
And it's almost there we should be seeing Eureka Lokes right about now.
And it's coming.
Here we go.
Our application is registered.
The Eureka but we have a problem with the registration our application registers itself as unknown because
we forgot to give our application a name.
So let's fix that and restart our application.
To do that I'm going to use springs properties to bring down application name and what I'm going to
name this application is going to be rest's API application.
All right let's start our application and have it connected correctly.
It's almost there and we should be seeing the correct registration this time.
All right.
Here we go.
Our application is registered with Eureka.
As we said before the rest AAPI application.
And let's take a look at these logs for a minute.
In these logs as you can see the skurried client is initializing itself and then trying to register
the rest API application with Eureka.
And then it says it's up and registered to Eureka and also you can notice from the 200 successful H.T.
to be code here.
All right.
Our application is registered to Eureka.
So let's take out in the dashboard of Eureka so we can verify its registration.
I'll switch back to Firefox and I'll refresh my Eureka's server.
Here we go ARIST API application as registered at Eureka so that it can now accept requests in other
applications.